README Lake Desmearing for Small-Angle Scattering
Copyright (c) 1991-2010, Pete R. Jemian
svnid: $Id$


COMPILE (for UNIX or Linux or Cygwin):
   make clean	     remove any built object files
   make 	     compile "lake" executable
   make test	     run a test case as an example
   make diff	     compare the test case with known example
   more xxx.log      view the test case


CITATION
   Use this reference to cite this code in a publication.

   PhD Thesis, 1990, Northwestern University, 
   Evanston, IL, USA, Pete R. Jemian.
   http://jemian.org/pjthesis.pdf

USE
   These instructions are very limited.
   Additional help might be available in the Theory chapter
   of my PhD thesis:
   http://jemian.org/pjthesis.pdf

   Compile the program as above and run the "lake" executable.
   Hint:  This command should do it all:    make clean diff
   Output from "make diff" should be a difference in 
   when the executable was built.  Such as:
   ----------------% clip here %----------------
/bin/rm -f *.o core *%
gcc    -c -o lake.o lake.c
gcc    -c -o hunt.o hunt.c
gcc    -c -o stats.o stats.c
gcc    -c -o toolbox.o toolbox.c
gcc    -c -o recipes.o recipes.c
gcc -o lake lake.o hunt.o stats.o toolbox.o recipes.o -lm
./lake < xxx.inp > xxx.log
diff test_xxx.log xxx.log
3c3
<  This executable was built Nov  9 2010, 09:55:20
---
>  This executable was built Nov  9 2010, 10:01:44
make: *** [diff] Error 1
   ----------------% clip here %----------------

   No "install" methods are provided.  The Makefile
   will build "lake" executable as a shared-object.  (Not static).

   Input data will be provided in an ASCII TEXT file
   as three columns (Q  I  dI) separated by white space.
   Units must be compatible.  (I and dI must have same units)
   Q: scattering vector
   I measured SAS intensity
   dI estimated uncertainties of I (usually standard deviation)
   Note that dI MUST be provided and MUST not be zero.
   
NOTES
    revised to compile on:
       Linux gcc
       Solaris Sun Workshop C
       Windows 95/98/NT Metrowerks CodeWarrior
       Macintosh Metrowerks CodeWarrior
       Macintosh Symantec C
    4 February 1994
       direct translation of LAKE.FOR
       which would not run correctly under System 7
       (Some compiler error that would not pass array DC(*)
       into subroutine SMEAR.)
    2002-Sept-18:
    	users of Windows version report errors associated with file names
	Probably a bug was edited in.


HISTORY
    lake.c was derived from the FORTRAN program:
    Lake.FOR  25 May 1991
    ref: J.A. Lake; ACTA CRYST 23 (1967) 191-194.
    by: Pete R. Jemian, Late-Nite(tm) Software

    Also see: O. Glatter; ACTA CRYST 7 (1974) 147-153
      W.E. Blass & G.W.Halsey (1981).  "Deconvolution of
        Absorption Spectra."  New York City: Academic Press
      P.A. Jansson.  (1984) "Deconvolution with Applications
        in Spectroscopy."  New York City: Academic Press.
      G.W.Halsey & W.E. Blass.  "Deconvolution Examples"
        in "Deconvolution with Applications in Spectroscopy."
        Ed. P.A. Jansson.  (see above)


PURPOSE
      This program applies the iterative desmearing technique of Lake
        to small-angle scattering data.  The way that the program works
        is that the user selects a file of data (x,y,dy) to be desmeared.
        If a file was not chosen, the program will end.  Otherwise the
        user is then asked to specify the slit-length (in the units of the
        x-axis); the X at which to begin fitting the last data points to a
        power-law of X, the output file name, and the number of iterations
        to be run.  Then the data file is opened, the data is read, and the
        data file is closed.  The program begins iterating and shows an
        indicator of progress on the screen in text format.
      It is a mistake to run this program on data that has been desmeared
        at least once (by this program) as you will see.  The problem is
        that the program expects that the input data has been smeared, NOT
        partially desmeared.  Lake's technique should be made to iterate
        with the original, smeared data and subsequent trial solutions
        of desmeared data.
      The integration technique used by this program to smear the data
        is the trapezoid-rule where the step-size is chosen by the
        spacing of the data points themselves.  A linear
        interpolation of the data is performed.  To avoid truncation
        effects, a power-law extrapolation of the intensity
        is made for all values beyond the range of available
        data.  This region is also integrated by the trapezoid
        rule.  The integration covers the region from l = 0
        up to l = lo. (see routine SMEAR).
        This technique allows the slit-length weighting function
        to be changed without regard to the limits of integration
        coded into this program.
